README.md, before:

#  SSL-Checker

A web-based SSL/TLS certificate monitoring tool built with **FastAPI**, **PostgreSQL**, and **SendGrid**.  
It notifies users about expiring certificates and provides a web interface to manage monitored websites.

---

##  Requirements

- Python 3.10+
- Pip 25.0.0 +
- PostgreSQL 15+ (e.g. [Download Here](https://www.postgresql.org/download/))
- Git
- SendGrid account (for email notifications)

---

##  Project Setup

### 1. Clone the project

```bash
git clone http://192.168.100.68:3000/CristianTorre/SSL-Checker.git
cd SSL-Checker
```
### 2. Create and activate virtual environment
#### Note: If you use anything else but 'python', like python3, py etc. use those instead
```bash
python -m venv venv
```
- Windows: 
```bash
venv\Scripts\activate
```
- macOS/Linux: 
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```
### 3. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
## PostgreSQL Setup


### 2. Start PostgreSQL and access with your root user

If you don't want to run PostgreSQL on your local machine, use the init_db_sql scripts content on the machine that has it installed.
Change the .env file accordingly to connect to your external machine, the default port is 5432.

```bash
psql -u (your root user) -f init_db.sql
```

## Environment Configuration

### 1. Create a .env file in the project root

- Use .env.example as a template


## Alembic (Database Migrations)

### 1. Initialize Alembic (once)
```bash
alembic init alembic
```
### 2. Configure alembic/env.py

Update the following:

- Add this at the top:
```bash
import os
import sys
from dotenv import load_dotenv
sys.path.append(os.path.abspath(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), '..')))

from app.database import Base
from app import models
load_dotenv()
```
- Find the following line:
```bash
config.set_main_option("sqlalchemy.url", "your-database-url-here")
```
- Replace it with database URL from .env:
```bash
config.set_main_option("sqlalchemy.url", os.getenv("DATABASE_URL"))
```
- Replace:
```bash
target_metadata = None
```
- With:
```bash
target_metadata = Base.metadata
```
### 3. Generate and apply initial migration
```bash
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Initial migration"
alembic upgrade head
```
## Seed Initial Users

### Create users

- Create admin and regular user by running:
```bash
python seed_users.py
```
## Run the App
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

App will be available at:
http://127.0.0.1:8000

## Email Notifications

- Uses SendGrid to send SSL and TSL expiry notifications.
- Set your API key in the .env file.
- Emails are sent to the address associated with each website entry.

## User Accounts

- Admin: admin | PW: admin123
- User: user | PW: user123

Commit message:

fix: Updated ReadMe, more specified with user accounts

README.md, after:

#  SSL-Checker

A web-based SSL/TLS certificate monitoring tool built with **FastAPI**, **PostgreSQL**, and **SendGrid**.  
It notifies users about expiring certificates and provides a web interface to manage monitored websites.

---

##  Requirements

- Python 3.10+
- Pip 25.0.0 +
- PostgreSQL 15+ (e.g. [Download Here](https://www.postgresql.org/download/))
- Git
- SendGrid account (for email notifications)

---

##  Project Setup

### 1. Clone the project

```bash
git clone http://192.168.100.68:3000/CristianTorre/SSL-Checker.git
cd SSL-Checker
```
### 2. Create and activate virtual environment
#### Note: If you use anything else but 'python', like python3, py etc. use those instead
```bash
python -m venv venv
```
- Windows: 
```bash
venv\Scripts\activate
```
- macOS/Linux: 
```bash
source venv/bin/activate
```
### 3. Install dependencies
```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```
## PostgreSQL Setup


### 2. Start PostgreSQL and access with your root user

If you don't want to run PostgreSQL on your local machine, use the init_db_sql scripts content on the machine that has it installed.
Change the .env file accordingly to connect to your external machine, the default port is 5432.

```bash
psql -u (your root user) -f init_db.sql
```

## Environment Configuration

### 1. Create a .env file in the project root

- Use .env.example as a template


## Alembic (Database Migrations)

### 1. Initialize Alembic (once)
```bash
alembic init alembic
```
### 2. Configure alembic/env.py

Update the following:

- Add this at the top:
```bash
import os
import sys
from dotenv import load_dotenv
sys.path.append(os.path.abspath(os.path.join(os.path.dirname(__file__), '..')))

from app.database import Base
from app import models
load_dotenv()
```
- Find the following line:
```bash
config.set_main_option("sqlalchemy.url", "your-database-url-here")
```
- Replace it with database URL from .env:
```bash
config.set_main_option("sqlalchemy.url", os.getenv("DATABASE_URL"))
```
- Replace:
```bash
target_metadata = None
```
- With:
```bash
target_metadata = Base.metadata
```
### 3. Generate and apply initial migration
```bash
alembic revision --autogenerate -m "Initial migration"
alembic upgrade head
```
## Seed Initial Users

### Create users

- Create admin and regular user by running:
```bash
python seed_users.py
```
## Run the App
```bash
uvicorn app.main:app --reload
```

App will be available at:
http://127.0.0.1:8000

## Email Notifications

- Uses SendGrid to send SSL and TSL expiry notifications.
- Set your API key in the .env file.
- Emails are sent to the address associated with each website entry.

### Authentication

**Admin**
- User: `admin`
- Password: `admin123`

**Warden**
- User: `user`
- Password: `user123`

**After you can create your own account, either admin account by logging in with admin user, or normal user with normal register using your real E-Mail for testing.**
